---
quarter: God's Exceptional Choice
unit: God Calls Abraham's Family
title: Jacob Called Israel
date: 2022-09-18
---

::Passage{title="Genesis 32:22-32"}

:::Translation{title="English Standard Version"}
**22**The same night he arose and took his two wives, his two female servants, and his eleven children, and crossed the ford of the Jabbok.
**23**He took them and sent them across the stream, and everything else that he had.
**24**And Jacob was left alone. And a man wrestled with him until the breaking of the day.
**25**When the man saw that he did not prevail against Jacob, he touched his hip socket, and Jacob's hip was put out of joint as he wrestled with him.
**26**Then he said, "Let me go, for the day has broken." But Jacob said, "I will not let you go unless you bless me."
**27**And he said to him, "What is your name?" And he said, "Jacob."
**28**Then he said, "Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel, for you have striven with God and with men, and have prevailed."
**29**Then Jacob asked him, "Please tell me your name." But he said, "Why is it that you ask my name?" And there he blessed him.
**30**So Jacob called the name of the place Peniel, saying, "For I have seen God face to face, and yet my life has been delivered."
**31**The sun rose upon him as he passed Penuel, limping because of his hip.
**32**Therefore to this day the people of Israel do not eat the sinew of the thigh that is on the hip socket, because he touched the socket of Jacob's hip on the sinew of the thigh.
:::

:::Translation{title="Christian Standard Bible"}
**22**During the night Jacob got up and took his two wives, his two slave women, and his eleven sons, and crossed the ford of Jabbok.
**23**He took them and sent them across the stream, along with all his possessions.

**24**Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him until daybreak.
**25**When the man saw that he could not defeat him, he struck Jacob's hip socket as they wrestled and dislocated his hip.
**26**Then he said to Jacob, "Let me go, for it is daybreak."

But Jacob said, "I will not let you go unless you bless me."

**27**"What is your name?" the man asked.

"Jacob," he replied.

**28**"Your name will no longer be Jacob," he said. "It will be Israel because you have struggled with God and with men and have prevailed."

**29**Then Jacob asked him, "Please tell me your name."

But he answered, "Why do you ask my name?" And he blessed him there.

**30**Jacob then named the place Peniel, "For I have seen God face to face," he said, "yet my life has been spared."
**31**The sun shone on him as he passed by Penuel ​-- ​limping because of his hip.
**32**That is why, still today, the Israelites don't eat the thigh muscle that is at the hip socket: because he struck Jacob's hip socket at the thigh muscle.
:::

:::Translation{title="New Living Translation"}
**22**During the night Jacob got up and took his two wives, his two servant wives, and his eleven sons and crossed the Jabbok River with them.
**23**After taking them to the other side, he sent over all his possessions.

**24**This left Jacob all alone in the camp, and a man came and wrestled with him until the dawn began to break.
**25**When the man saw that he would not win the match, he touched Jacob's hip and wrenched it out of its socket.
**26**Then the man said, "Let me go, for the dawn is breaking!"

But Jacob said, "I will not let you go unless you bless me."

**27**"What is your name?" the man asked.

He replied, "Jacob."

**28**"Your name will no longer be Jacob," the man told him. "From now on you will be called Israel, because you have fought with God and with men and have won."

**29**"Please tell me your name," Jacob said.

"Why do you want to know my name?" the man replied. Then he blessed Jacob there.

**30**Jacob named the place Peniel (which means "face of God"), for he said, "I have seen God face to face, yet my life has been spared."
**31**The sun was rising as Jacob left Peniel, and he was limping because of the injury to his hip.
**32**(Even today the people of Israel don't eat the tendon near the hip socket because of what happened that night when the man strained the tendon of Jacob's hip.)
:::
::
