---
quarter: God's Exceptional Choice
unit: God Calls Abraham's Family
title: The Scepter Given to Judah
date: 2022-09-25
---

::Passage{title="Genesis 32:22-26"}

:::Translation{title="English Standard Version"}
**22**The same night he arose and took his two wives, his two female servants, and his eleven children, and crossed the ford of the Jabbok.
**23**He took them and sent them across the stream, and everything else that he had.
**24**And Jacob was left alone. And a man wrestled with him until the breaking of the day.
**25**When the man saw that he did not prevail against Jacob, he touched his hip socket, and Jacob's hip was put out of joint as he wrestled with him.
**26**Then he said, "Let me go, for the day has broken." But Jacob said, "I will not let you go unless you bless me."
:::

:::Translation{title="Christian Standard Bible"}
**22**During the night Jacob got up and took his two wives, his two slave women, and his eleven sons, and crossed the ford of Jabbok.
**23**He took them and sent them across the stream, along with all his possessions.

**24**Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him until daybreak.
**25**When the man saw that he could not defeat him, he struck Jacob's hip socket as they wrestled and dislocated his hip.
**26**Then he said to Jacob, "Let me go, for it is daybreak."

But Jacob said, "I will not let you go unless you bless me."
:::

:::Translation{title="New Living Translation"}
**22**During the night Jacob got up and took his two wives, his two servant wives, and his eleven sons and crossed the Jabbok River with them.
**23**After taking them to the other side, he sent over all his possessions.

**24**This left Jacob all alone in the camp, and a man came and wrestled with him until the dawn began to break.
**25**When the man saw that he would not win the match, he touched Jacob's hip and wrenched it out of its socket.
**26**Then the man said, "Let me go, for the dawn is breaking!"

But Jacob said, "I will not let you go unless you bless me."
:::
::

::Passage{title="Genesis 38:24-26"}

:::Translation{title="English Standard Version"}
**24**About three months later Judah was told, "Tamar your daughter-in-law has been immoral. Moreover, she is pregnant by immorality." And Judah said, "Bring her out, and let her be burned."
**25**As she was being brought out, she sent word to her father-in-law, "By the man to whom these belong, I am pregnant." And she said, "Please identify whose these are, the signet and the cord and the staff."
**26**Then Judah identified them and said, "She is more righteous than I, since I did not give her to my son Shelah." And he did not know her again.
:::

:::Translation{title="Christian Standard Bible"}
**24**About three months later Judah was told, "Your daughter-in-law, Tamar, has been acting like a prostitute, and now she is pregnant."

"Bring her out," Judah said, "and let her be burned to death!"

**25**As she was being brought out, she sent her father-in-law this message: "I am pregnant by the man to whom these items belong." And she added, "Examine them. Whose signet ring, cord, and staff are these?"

**26**Judah recognized them and said, "She is more in the right than I, since I did not give her to my son Shelah." And he did not know her intimately again.
:::

:::Translation{title="New Living Translation"}
**24**About three months later, Judah was told, "Tamar, your daughter-in-law, has acted like a prostitute. And now, because of this, she's pregnant."

"Bring her out, and let her be burned!" Judah demanded.

**25**But as they were taking her out to kill her, she sent this message to her father-in-law: "The man who owns these things made me pregnant. Look closely. Whose seal and cord and walking stick are these?"

**26**Judah recognized them immediately and said, "She is more righteous than I am, because I didn't arrange for her to marry my son Shelah." And Judah never slept with Tamar again.
:::
::

::Passage{title="Genesis 49:10-12"}

:::Translation{title="English Standard Version"}

- **10**The scepter shall not depart from Judah,
- nor the ruler's staff from between his feet,
- until tribute comes to him;
- and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples.
- **11**Binding his foal to the vine
- and his donkey's colt to the choice vine,
- he has washed his garments in wine
- and his vesture in the blood of grapes.
- **12**His eyes are darker than wine,
- and his teeth whiter than milk.

:::

:::Translation{title="Christian Standard Bible"}

- **10**The scepter will not depart from Judah
- or the staff from between his feet
- until he whose right it is comes
- and the obedience of the peoples belongs to him.
- **11**He ties his donkey to a vine,
- and the colt of his donkey to the choice vine.
- He washes his clothes in wine
- and his robes in the blood of grapes.
- **12**His eyes are darker than wine,
- and his teeth are whiter than milk.

:::

:::Translation{title="New Living Translation"}

- **10**The scepter will not depart from Judah,
- nor the ruler's staff from his descendants,
- until the coming of the one to whom it belongs,
- the one whom all nations will honor.
- **11**He ties his foal to a grapevine,
- the colt of his donkey to a choice vine.
- He washes his clothes in wine,
- his robes in the blood of grapes.
- **12**His eyes are darker than wine,
- and his teeth are whiter than milk.

:::
::
